# Momentum-Strategy-Engine
Algorithmic trading system built with Node.js that retrieves market data, computes momentum factors across S&amp;P 500 equities, and executes systematic trading strategies.

## 🚀Features
* Collect stock market data from the S&P 500
* Identify the top 3 stocks based on the Momentum
* Send email to inform the users about stocks ranking 
* The results will be displayed once per week

## 📅Project Overview

This project was created to automatically identify the top stocks from the S&P 500.

The main goal is to reduce psychological bias in investments decisions by relying on data-driven analysis rather than emotions.
The program also helps usrs save time and focus on the most relevant opportunities.

#### This project is designed as a learning experience and should not be considered financial advice.

## 📋Installation

This are the necessary packages to install in order to use the program:

```
npm install
```
To install addiotional package 

```
npm start
```
To start the program

```
npm install resend
```
To install Resend for sending e-mail 

```
npm install mysql2
```
To install mysql for the database 



## 📝The process

Firstly, i started by structuring my code in three distinct section, data fetching, mathematical processing, and analytical process. I have implemented asynchronos fonction and keyword await to manage multiple network requests without blocking the main execution thread.

During the process i have encounter an API Rate Limiting, to solve this problem i have implemented a custom throttle (200ms sleep timer) between API calls.
Debugged complex variable scope issues (closures abd block scopes) to ensure data remained accessible across the entire analysis process

To check the data validation, i have implemented safety checks to exclude empty stocks or newly listed comapnies with insufficient historical data 
(less than 6 months/126 trading days).

The next step was to store the data by adding the object "results" and creating a "dual score" system: using a rawScore for prices mathematical sorting and a formatted string (with symbols and rounded decimals) for the user interface.

I have also integrated a console.table() for the top 3 stocks, prodviding a clean, spreadsheet-like view of the top 3 recommendations including Symbol, Name, Price and Momentum Score.
In the continuity, i have implemented an e-mail system that sends automatically a report of the top 3 recomendations of S&P 500.



## 🧠What I Learned 

Throughout this project, i have gathered multiple important skills and a better idea of the logic behind a program srtucture which improved my logical thinking:

#### 🧑‍💻Advanced JavaScript (ES6+) & Logic Flow

* **Asynchronous Programming:** Execution of non-blocking code using async/await to handle external API latency.

* **Data Structure Manipulation:** Array methods like .slice(), .sort(), and .push() to transform raw JSON data into actionable insights.

#### 🗄️ API Management & System Resilience

* **Error Handling Strategy:** Try/catch blocks to ensure the application continues running even if a specific data points are missing or network errors occur.

#### 🧠 Financial Engineering Logic

* **Algorithm Development:** Momentum algorithm that balances short-term (1 month) and medium-term (6 months) trends to filter out market noise.

#### 🔨 Developer Experience (DX) & Tooling

* **CLI Data Visualization:** Console.table() to create professional, scannable terminal reports.


## ⚖️ License & Financial Disclaimer (IMPORTANT)

### 🔒 Proprietary License
**Copyright (c) 2026 [Clement Dedieu] - All rights reserved.**

* **Strictly Private**: This project is a personal portfolio piece.

* **No Authorization**: No one is authorized to copy, modify, distribute, or use this software or its source code for any purpose (private, educational, or commercial) without explicit written permission from the author.
  
* **Access**: Permission to view the code on GitHub does not constitute a license to use it.

### ⚠️ Financial Disclaimer
**Trading and investing in the stock market involve a high risk of financial loss.**

* **Not Financial Advice**: The results, scores, and data generated by this program are for **informational and educational purposes only**. They do not constitute financial, investment, or legal advice.
  
* **No Liability**: The author ( [Clement Dedieu] ) shall not be held responsible for any financial losses, costs, or damages resulting from the use of this program. This program is used at the user's own risk.
  
* **Personal Use Only**: I developed this tool for my own personal reasons and research first. I do not encourage, incite, or recommend anyone to invest money in the stock market based on this tool.
  
* **Data Accuracy**: Financial data is provided "as is" by third-party APIs. I do not guarantee the accuracy or reliability of the results.









